in this video will discuss functions and look at how they differ from subroutines.
As you'll see,
the main difference is it functions can return a value that this could be very useful.
We've already seen how you can use the built in functions within the V A,
such as input box and how they can be used to populate your variables.
But in this video will move on to look at how you can define your own functions.
In the last video,
we looked at how you could model.
Arise your code by having separate subroutines,
which you then call in addition to this model organization.
If you use functions rather than subroutines,
you have the advantage that each function can return a value.
Let's look at an illustration of way that's so useful.
Let's create a similar structure to the one that you used in the last video.
So his own macron and we'll call it main ones more.
And let's say that inside this we're going to call the function,
and again it's going to create a document.
Now let's define the function again.
We use the keyword private,
but instead of sub you say function,
then let's paste in the name presente.
However,
now there's one additional thing that we could do.
We can define the type of data which are function will return.
So in this case,
let's say that we want the function to return the document,
which it actually creates to specify this data type after the parentheses,
which follows the name of the function you put the ass keyword in exactly the same way is
when you're declaring a variable followed by the data type.
So for creating the document,
let's use the code that we recorded before.
So I'm gonna copy all of this and after our function has created a document,
we now want to return a reference to that document.
And the way that this is done in Baby A is very similar to the way in which you assign
value to a variable.
So because we've defined a function which returns at an object,
a document object,
we need to use the keyword set.
We then use the name of the function,
so I'll just copy that and faced it in equal to.
And then we put a reference to the document because we've just created it.
It's safe to say active document.
So now we have a function that returns the value,
which is the document that it's just created.
We now have the option in the main module in the main subroutine,
a macro of actually using that value that document.
So here,
instead of just a function call,
we could also populate a variable.
So let's define a variable.
And then here we can actually populate that variable because it's an object,
will you set equals and then we've got our function cool.
However,
when using this syntax,
we could no longer use the keyword call.
So we'll just remove that and then to test that this is working.
Let's just use message box the documents contains.
And then I say,
Doc,
you dot characters locked count ampersand characters.
So now we can say about changes,
and then let's test it.
So here's our new documents,
and it contains 24 characters.
So,
as you can see,
the ability to return a value adds another that I mentioned to functions which subroutines
don't have in the next video.
We'll move on to look at how you can use parameters in subroutine and function calls on
This adds even more flexibility and more power to the process of model organization.
In addition to model,
a rise in your code functions a capable of returning information into a variable used in
the function.
Call when defining the function.
Precede its name with the keywords private function.
To specify the data type returned by a function used the syntax as data type after the
closing parentheses,
which follow the function name.
To specify the value returned by a function.
Use this Intacs.
Let my function equal data value The functions which return data values set my function
equal to object name for functions which return objects.